README.md, before:

# solrq
Python Solr query utility. It helps making query strings for Solr more 
'pythonicaly' and also helps with escaping reserved characters.

    pip install solrq
    
And you're ready to go!

# usage

Everything in `solrq` is about `Q` object. Drop into python repl and just
feed it with bunch of field and search terms to see how it works:

    >>> from solrq import Q
    >>> # note: all terms in single Q object are implicitely joined with 'AND'
    >>> query = Q(type="animal", species="dog")
    >>> query
    <Q: type:animal AND species:dog>
    
    >>> # ohh, forgot about cats?
    >>> query & Q(type="animal", species="dog")
    <Q: (type:animal AND species:dog) AND (type:animal AND species:dog)>
    
    >>># more a cat lover? Let's give them a boost boost
    >>> Q(type="animal") & (Q(species="cat")^2 | Q(species="dog"))
    <Q: type:animal AND ((species:cat^2) OR species:dog)>


But what to do with this `Q`? Simply pass it to your Solr library of choice, 
like [pysolr](https://github.com/toastdriven/pysolr) or 
[mysolr](https://github.com/RedTuna/mysolr). Most of them just expect simple
string as a query parameter or even can't help with escaping. This is why
`solrq` integrates so easily. See how it looks like for pysolr:

    from solrq import Q
    import pysolr
    
    solr = Solr("<your solr url>")
    
    # simply using Q object
    solr.search(Q(text="easy as f***"))

    # or explicitely making it string
    solr.search(str(Q(text="easy as f***")))
    
    
## quick reference

Full reference can be found in package documentation but here is a short
reference.

### boosting queries

Use python `^` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') ^ 2
    <Q: text:cat^2>


### AND queries

Use python `&` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') & Q(text='dog')
    <Q: text:cat AND text:dog>

### OR queries

Use python `|` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') | Q(text='dog')
    <Q: text:cat AND text:dog>
    

### NOT queries

Use python `~` operator:

    >>> ~ Q(text='cat')
    <Q: !text:cat>
    
### ranges:

Use `solrq.Range` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Range
    >>> Q(age=Range(18, 25))
    <Q: age:[18 TO 25]>


### proximity search

Use `solrq.Proximity` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Proximity
    >>> Q(age=Proximity("cat dogs", 5))
    <Q: age:"cat\ dogs"~5>

### safe strings

All raw string values are treated as unsafe and will be escaped to ensure that 
final query string will not be broken by some rougue search value this of 
course can be disabled if you know what you're doing using `Value` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Q, Value
    >>> Q(type='foo bar[]')
    <Q: type:foo\ bar\[\]>
    >>> Q(type=Value('foo bar[]', safe=True))
    <Q: type:foo bar[]>
    
    
### timedeltas, datetimes

Simply as:

    >>> from datetime import datetime, timedelta
    >>> Q(date=datetime(1970, 1, 1))
    <Q: date:"1970-01-01T00:00:00">
    >>> # note that timedeltas has any sense mostly with ranges
    >>> Q(delta=timedelta(days=1))
    <Q: delta:NOW+1DAYS+0SECONDS+0MILLISECONDS>
    

# contributing

Any contribution is welcome. Issues, suggestions, pull requests - whatever. 
There are no strict contribution guidelines beyond PEP-8
and sanity. Code style is checked with flakes8 and any PR that has failed build
will not be merged.

And one last thing: if you submit a PR please do not rebase it later unless you
are not asked for that. Reviewing pull requests that suddenly had their history
rewritten just drives me crazy.

# testing

Tests are run using tox. Simply install it and run:

    pip install
    tox
    
And that's all.

Commit message:

readme: add information about using field wildcards

README.md, after:

# solrq
Python Solr query utility. It helps making query strings for Solr more 
'pythonicaly' and also helps with escaping reserved characters.

    pip install solrq
    
And you're ready to go!

# usage

Everything in `solrq` is about `Q` object. Drop into python repl and just
feed it with bunch of field and search terms to see how it works:

    >>> from solrq import Q
    >>> # note: all terms in single Q object are implicitely joined with 'AND'
    >>> query = Q(type="animal", species="dog")
    >>> query
    <Q: type:animal AND species:dog>
    
    >>> # ohh, forgot about cats?
    >>> query & Q(type="animal", species="dog")
    <Q: (type:animal AND species:dog) AND (type:animal AND species:dog)>
    
    >>># more a cat lover? Let's give them a boost boost
    >>> Q(type="animal") & (Q(species="cat")^2 | Q(species="dog"))
    <Q: type:animal AND ((species:cat^2) OR species:dog)>


But what to do with this `Q`? Simply pass it to your Solr library of choice, 
like [pysolr](https://github.com/toastdriven/pysolr) or 
[mysolr](https://github.com/RedTuna/mysolr). Most of them just expect simple
string as a query parameter or even can't help with escaping. This is why
`solrq` integrates so easily. See how it looks like for pysolr:

    from solrq import Q
    import pysolr
    
    solr = Solr("<your solr url>")
    
    # simply using Q object
    solr.search(Q(text="easy as f***"))

    # or explicitely making it string
    solr.search(str(Q(text="easy as f***")))
    
    
## quick reference

Full reference can be found in package documentation but here is a short
reference.

### boosting queries

Use python `^` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') ^ 2
    <Q: text:cat^2>


### AND queries

Use python `&` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') & Q(text='dog')
    <Q: text:cat AND text:dog>

### OR queries

Use python `|` operator:

    >>> Q(text='cat') | Q(text='dog')
    <Q: text:cat AND text:dog>
    

### NOT queries

Use python `~` operator:

    >>> ~ Q(text='cat')
    <Q: !text:cat>
    
### ranges:

Use `solrq.Range` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Range
    >>> Q(age=Range(18, 25))
    <Q: age:[18 TO 25]>


### proximity search

Use `solrq.Proximity` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Proximity
    >>> Q(age=Proximity("cat dogs", 5))
    <Q: age:"cat\ dogs"~5>

### safe strings

All raw string values are treated as unsafe and will be escaped to ensure that 
final query string will not be broken by some rougue search value this of 
course can be disabled if you know what you're doing using `Value` wrapper:

    >>> from solrq import Q, Value
    >>> Q(type='foo bar[]')
    <Q: type:foo\ bar\[\]>
    >>> Q(type=Value('foo bar[]', safe=True))
    <Q: type:foo bar[]>
    
    
### timedeltas, datetimes

Simply as:

    >>> from datetime import datetime, timedelta
    >>> Q(date=datetime(1970, 1, 1))
    <Q: date:"1970-01-01T00:00:00">
    >>> # note that timedeltas has any sense mostly with ranges
    >>> Q(delta=timedelta(days=1))
    <Q: delta:NOW+1DAYS+0SECONDS+0MILLISECONDS>
    
### field wildcard

If you need to use wildcards in field names just pass use dict and unpack it
instead of using keyword arguments:

    >>> Q(**{"*_t": "text_to_search"})
    <Q: *_t:text_to_search>


# contributing

Any contribution is welcome. Issues, suggestions, pull requests - whatever. 
There are no strict contribution guidelines beyond PEP-8
and sanity. Code style is checked with flakes8 and any PR that has failed build
will not be merged.

And one last thing: if you submit a PR please do not rebase it later unless you
are not asked for that. Reviewing pull requests that suddenly had their history
rewritten just drives me crazy.

# testing

Tests are run using tox. Simply install it and run:

    pip install
    tox
    
And that's all.
